README.md, before:

PHPCSDevTools for developers of PHP_CodeSniffer sniffs
=====================================================

<div aria-hidden="true">

[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/phpcsstandards/phpcsdevtools/v/stable)](https://packagist.org/packages/phpcsstandards/phpcsdevtools)
[![Release Date of the Latest Version](https://img.shields.io/github/release-date/PHPCSStandards/PHPCSDevTools.svg?maxAge=1800)](https://github.com/PHPCSStandards/PHPCSDevTools/releases)
[![Changelog](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/PHPCSStandards/PHPCSDevTools?label=Changelog&sort=semver)](https://github.com/PHPCSStandards/PHPCSDevTools/blob/stable/CHANGELOG.md)
:construction:
[![Latest Unstable Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/unstable-dev--develop-e68718.svg?maxAge=2419200)](https://packagist.org/packages/phpcsstandards/phpcsdevtools#dev-develop)
[![Last Commit to Unstable](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/PHPCSStandards/PHPCSDevTools/develop.svg)](https://github.com/PHPCSStandards/PHPCSDevTools/commits/develop)

[![Minimum PHP Version](https://img.shields.io/packagist/php-v/phpcsstandards/phpcsdevtools.svg?maxAge=3600)](https://packagist.org/packages/phpcsstandards/phpcsdevtools)
[![Build Status CS](https://github.com/PHPCSStandards/PHPCSDevTools/actions/workflows/cs.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/PHPCSStandards/PHPCSDevTools/actions/workflows/cs.yml)
[![Build Status Test](https://github.com/PHPCSStandards/PHPCSDevTools/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/PHPCSStandards/PHPCSDevTools/actions/workflows/test.yml)
[![Tested on PHP 5.4 to nightly](https://img.shields.io/badge/tested%20on-PHP%205.4%20|%205.5%20|%205.6%20|%207.0%20|%207.1%20|%207.2%20|%207.3%20|%207.4%20|%208.0%20|%208.1%20|%20nightly-brightgreen.svg?maxAge=2419200)](https://github.com/PHPCSStandards/PHPCSDevTools/actions?query=workflow%3ATest)

[![License: LGPLv3](https://poser.pugx.org/phpcsstandards/phpcsdevtools/license)](https://github.com/PHPCSStandards/PHPCSDevTools/blob/stable/LICENSE)
![Awesome](https://img.shields.io/badge/awesome%3F-yes!-brightgreen.svg)

</div>

This is a set of tools to assist developers of sniffs for [PHP CodeSniffer](https://github.com/squizlabs/PHP_CodeSniffer).

* [Installation](#installation)
    + [Composer Project-based Installation](#composer-project-based-installation)
    + [Composer Global Installation](#composer-global-installation)
    + [Stand-alone Installation](#stand-alone-installation)
* [Features](#features)
    + [Checking whether all sniffs in a PHPCS standard are feature complete](#checking-whether-all-sniffs-in-a-phpcs-standard-are-feature-complete)
    + [Sniff Debugging](#sniff-debugging)
* [Contributing](#contributing)
* [License](#license)


Installation
-------------------------------------------

### Composer Project-based Installation

Run the following from the root of your project:
```bash
composer config allow-plugins.dealerdirect/phpcodesniffer-composer-installer true
composer require --dev phpcsstandards/phpcsdevtools:^1.0
```

### Composer Global Installation

If you work on several different sniff repos, you may want to install this toolset globally:
```bash
composer global config allow-plugins.dealerdirect/phpcodesniffer-composer-installer true
composer global require --dev phpcsstandards/phpcsdevtools:^1.0
```

Composer will automatically install dependencies and register the PHPCSDebug standard with PHP_CodeSniffer using the [Composer PHPCS plugin](https://github.com/PHPCSStandards/composer-installer).


### Stand-alone Installation

* Install [PHP CodeSniffer](https://github.com/squizlabs/PHP_CodeSniffer) via [your preferred method](https://github.com/squizlabs/PHP_CodeSniffer#installation).
* Register the path to PHPCS in your system `$PATH` environment variable to make the `phpcs` command available from anywhere in your file system.
* Download the [latest PHPCSDevTools release](https://github.com/PHPCSStandards/PHPCSDevTools/releases) and unzip/untar it into an arbitrary directory.
    You can also choose to clone this repository using git.
* Add the path to the directory in which you placed your copy of the PHPCSDevTools repo to the PHP CodeSniffer configuration using the below command:
   ```bash
   phpcs --config-set installed_paths /path/to/PHPCSDevTools
   ```
   :warning: **Warning**: The `installed_paths` command overwrites any previously set `installed_paths`. If you have previously set `installed_paths` for other external standards, run `phpcs --config-show` first and then run the `installed_paths` command with all the paths you need separated by commas, i.e.:
   ```bash
   phpcs --config-set installed_paths /path/1,/path/2,/path/3
   ```


Features
------------------------------

### Checking whether all sniffs in a PHPCS standard are feature complete

You can now check whether each and every sniff in your standard is accompanied by a documentation XML file (warning) as well as unit test files (error).

To use the tool, run it from the root of your standards repo like so:
```bash
# When installed as a project dependency:
vendor/bin/phpcs-check-feature-completeness

# When installed globally with Composer:
phpcs-check-feature-completeness

# When installed as a git clone or otherwise:
php -f "path/to/PHPCSDevTools/bin/phpcs-check-feature-completeness"
```

If all is good, you will see a `All # sniffs are accompanied by unit tests and documentation.` message.

If there are files missing, you will see errors/warnings for each missing file, like so:
```
WARNING: Documentation missing for path/to/project/StandardName/Sniffs/Category/SniffNameSniff.php.
ERROR: Unit tests missing for path/to/project/StandardName/Sniffs/Category/SniffNameSniff.php.
```

For the fastest results, it is recommended to pass the name of the subdirectory where your standard is located to the script, like so:
```bash
phpcs-check-feature-completeness ./StandardName
```

#### Options
```
directories <dir>     One or more specific directories to examine.
                      Defaults to the directory from which the script is run.
-q, --quiet           Turn off warnings for missing documentation.
--exclude=<dir1,dir2> Comma-delimited list of (relative) directories to
                      exclude from the scan.
                      Defaults to excluding the /vendor/ directory.
--no-progress         Disable progress in console output.
--colors              Enable colors in console output.
                      (disables auto detection of color support)
--no-colors           Disable colors in console output.
-v                    Verbose mode.
-h, --help            Print this help.
-V, --version         Display the current version of this script.
```


### Sniff Debugging

Once this project is installed, you will see a new `PHPCSDebug` ruleset in the list of installed standards when you run `phpcs -i`.

For now, this standard only contains one sniff: `PHPCSDebug.Debug.TokenList`.
This sniff will display compact, but detailed information about the tokens found in a (test case) file.

This sniff is compatible with PHPCS 3.1.0+.

Typical usage:
* Set up a test case file for a new sniff you intend to write.
* Run PHPCS over the test case file using this standard to see a list of the tokens found in the file:
```bash
phpcs ./SniffNameUnitTest.inc --standard=PHPCSDebug
```
* Or use it together with the new sniff you are developing:
```bash
phpcs ./SniffNameUnitTest.inc --standard=YourStandard,PHPCSDebug --sniffs=YourStandard.Category.NewSniffName,PHPCSDebug.Debug.TokenList
```

The output will look something along the lines of:
```
Ptr | Ln | Col  | Cond | ( #) | Token Type                 | [len]: Content
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  0 | L1 | C  1 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_OPEN_TAG                 | [  5]: <?php

  1 | L2 | C  1 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_WHITESPACE               | [  0]:

  2 | L3 | C  1 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_COMMENT                  | [ 32]: // Boolean not operator: All OK.

  3 | L4 | C  1 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_IF                       | [  2]: if
  4 | L4 | C  3 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_WHITESPACE               | [  1]:
  5 | L4 | C  4 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_OPEN_PARENTHESIS         | [  1]: (
  6 | L4 | C  5 | CC 0 | ( 1) | T_WHITESPACE               | [  1]:
  7 | L4 | C  6 | CC 0 | ( 1) | T_CONSTANT_ENCAPSED_STRING | [  4]: 'bb'
  8 | L4 | C 10 | CC 0 | ( 1) | T_WHITESPACE               | [  1]:
  9 | L4 | C 11 | CC 0 | ( 1) | T_IS_NOT_IDENTICAL         | [  3]: !==
 10 | L4 | C 14 | CC 0 | ( 1) | T_WHITESPACE               | [  1]:
 11 | L4 | C 15 | CC 0 | ( 1) | T_CONSTANT_ENCAPSED_STRING | [  4]: 'bb'
 12 | L4 | C 19 | CC 0 | ( 1) | T_WHITESPACE               | [  1]:
 13 | L4 | C 20 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_CLOSE_PARENTHESIS        | [  1]: )
 14 | L4 | C 21 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_WHITESPACE               | [  1]:
 15 | L4 | C 22 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_OPEN_CURLY_BRACKET       | [  1]: {
 16 | L4 | C 23 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_WHITESPACE               | [  0]:

 17 | L5 | C  1 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_WHITESPACE               | [  1]: \t
 18 | L5 | C  2 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_IF                       | [  2]: if
 19 | L5 | C  4 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_WHITESPACE               | [  1]:
 20 | L5 | C  5 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_OPEN_PARENTHESIS         | [  1]: (
 21 | L5 | C  6 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_WHITESPACE               | [  0]:
```

PHPCS itself can also display similar information using the `-vv` or `-vvv` verbosity flags, however, when using those, you will receive a *lot* more information than just the token list and, while useful for debugging PHPCS itself, the additional information is mostly just noise when developing a sniff.


Contributing
-------
Contributions to this project are welcome. Clone this repository, branch off from `develop`, make your changes, commit them and send in a pull request.

If unsure whether the changes you are proposing would be welcome, open an issue first to discuss your proposal.

License
-------
This code is released under the [GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPLv3)](http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/lesser.html).

Commit message:

FeatureComplete: add explicit `--no-docs` CLI argument
* Add explicit `--no-docs` CLI option. Currently this is basically an alias for the `-q`/`--quiet` option.
* Remove the `Config::$quietMode` property in favour of a `Config::$checkDocs` property and adjust all places the old property was used.

Includes:
* Adding a dedicated test to safeguard the parsing of the new CLI argument.
* Updating the CLI arguments lists in all relevant places.
* Updating existing `GetHelpTest` tests for the new CLI argument.
* Updating existing unit tests for the property rename.

README.md, after:

PHPCSDevTools for developers of PHP_CodeSniffer sniffs
=====================================================

<div aria-hidden="true">

[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/phpcsstandards/phpcsdevtools/v/stable)](https://packagist.org/packages/phpcsstandards/phpcsdevtools)
[![Release Date of the Latest Version](https://img.shields.io/github/release-date/PHPCSStandards/PHPCSDevTools.svg?maxAge=1800)](https://github.com/PHPCSStandards/PHPCSDevTools/releases)
[![Changelog](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/PHPCSStandards/PHPCSDevTools?label=Changelog&sort=semver)](https://github.com/PHPCSStandards/PHPCSDevTools/blob/stable/CHANGELOG.md)
:construction:
[![Latest Unstable Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/unstable-dev--develop-e68718.svg?maxAge=2419200)](https://packagist.org/packages/phpcsstandards/phpcsdevtools#dev-develop)
[![Last Commit to Unstable](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/PHPCSStandards/PHPCSDevTools/develop.svg)](https://github.com/PHPCSStandards/PHPCSDevTools/commits/develop)

[![Minimum PHP Version](https://img.shields.io/packagist/php-v/phpcsstandards/phpcsdevtools.svg?maxAge=3600)](https://packagist.org/packages/phpcsstandards/phpcsdevtools)
[![Build Status CS](https://github.com/PHPCSStandards/PHPCSDevTools/actions/workflows/cs.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/PHPCSStandards/PHPCSDevTools/actions/workflows/cs.yml)
[![Build Status Test](https://github.com/PHPCSStandards/PHPCSDevTools/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/PHPCSStandards/PHPCSDevTools/actions/workflows/test.yml)
[![Tested on PHP 5.4 to nightly](https://img.shields.io/badge/tested%20on-PHP%205.4%20|%205.5%20|%205.6%20|%207.0%20|%207.1%20|%207.2%20|%207.3%20|%207.4%20|%208.0%20|%208.1%20|%20nightly-brightgreen.svg?maxAge=2419200)](https://github.com/PHPCSStandards/PHPCSDevTools/actions?query=workflow%3ATest)

[![License: LGPLv3](https://poser.pugx.org/phpcsstandards/phpcsdevtools/license)](https://github.com/PHPCSStandards/PHPCSDevTools/blob/stable/LICENSE)
![Awesome](https://img.shields.io/badge/awesome%3F-yes!-brightgreen.svg)

</div>

This is a set of tools to assist developers of sniffs for [PHP CodeSniffer](https://github.com/squizlabs/PHP_CodeSniffer).

* [Installation](#installation)
    + [Composer Project-based Installation](#composer-project-based-installation)
    + [Composer Global Installation](#composer-global-installation)
    + [Stand-alone Installation](#stand-alone-installation)
* [Features](#features)
    + [Checking whether all sniffs in a PHPCS standard are feature complete](#checking-whether-all-sniffs-in-a-phpcs-standard-are-feature-complete)
    + [Sniff Debugging](#sniff-debugging)
* [Contributing](#contributing)
* [License](#license)


Installation
-------------------------------------------

### Composer Project-based Installation

Run the following from the root of your project:
```bash
composer config allow-plugins.dealerdirect/phpcodesniffer-composer-installer true
composer require --dev phpcsstandards/phpcsdevtools:^1.0
```

### Composer Global Installation

If you work on several different sniff repos, you may want to install this toolset globally:
```bash
composer global config allow-plugins.dealerdirect/phpcodesniffer-composer-installer true
composer global require --dev phpcsstandards/phpcsdevtools:^1.0
```

Composer will automatically install dependencies and register the PHPCSDebug standard with PHP_CodeSniffer using the [Composer PHPCS plugin](https://github.com/PHPCSStandards/composer-installer).


### Stand-alone Installation

* Install [PHP CodeSniffer](https://github.com/squizlabs/PHP_CodeSniffer) via [your preferred method](https://github.com/squizlabs/PHP_CodeSniffer#installation).
* Register the path to PHPCS in your system `$PATH` environment variable to make the `phpcs` command available from anywhere in your file system.
* Download the [latest PHPCSDevTools release](https://github.com/PHPCSStandards/PHPCSDevTools/releases) and unzip/untar it into an arbitrary directory.
    You can also choose to clone this repository using git.
* Add the path to the directory in which you placed your copy of the PHPCSDevTools repo to the PHP CodeSniffer configuration using the below command:
   ```bash
   phpcs --config-set installed_paths /path/to/PHPCSDevTools
   ```
   :warning: **Warning**: The `installed_paths` command overwrites any previously set `installed_paths`. If you have previously set `installed_paths` for other external standards, run `phpcs --config-show` first and then run the `installed_paths` command with all the paths you need separated by commas, i.e.:
   ```bash
   phpcs --config-set installed_paths /path/1,/path/2,/path/3
   ```


Features
------------------------------

### Checking whether all sniffs in a PHPCS standard are feature complete

You can now check whether each and every sniff in your standard is accompanied by a documentation XML file (warning) as well as unit test files (error).

To use the tool, run it from the root of your standards repo like so:
```bash
# When installed as a project dependency:
vendor/bin/phpcs-check-feature-completeness

# When installed globally with Composer:
phpcs-check-feature-completeness

# When installed as a git clone or otherwise:
php -f "path/to/PHPCSDevTools/bin/phpcs-check-feature-completeness"
```

If all is good, you will see a `All # sniffs are accompanied by unit tests and documentation.` message.

If there are files missing, you will see errors/warnings for each missing file, like so:
```
WARNING: Documentation missing for path/to/project/StandardName/Sniffs/Category/SniffNameSniff.php.
ERROR: Unit tests missing for path/to/project/StandardName/Sniffs/Category/SniffNameSniff.php.
```

For the fastest results, it is recommended to pass the name of the subdirectory where your standard is located to the script, like so:
```bash
phpcs-check-feature-completeness ./StandardName
```

#### Options
```
directories <dir>     One or more specific directories to examine.
                      Defaults to the directory from which the script is run.
-q, --quiet           Turn off warnings for missing documentation.
                      Equivalent to running with "--no-docs".
--exclude=<dir1,dir2> Comma-delimited list of (relative) directories to
                      exclude from the scan.
                      Defaults to excluding the /vendor/ directory.
--no-docs             Disable missing documentation check.
--no-progress         Disable progress in console output.
--colors              Enable colors in console output.
                      (disables auto detection of color support)
--no-colors           Disable colors in console output.
-v                    Verbose mode.
-h, --help            Print this help.
-V, --version         Display the current version of this script.
```


### Sniff Debugging

Once this project is installed, you will see a new `PHPCSDebug` ruleset in the list of installed standards when you run `phpcs -i`.

For now, this standard only contains one sniff: `PHPCSDebug.Debug.TokenList`.
This sniff will display compact, but detailed information about the tokens found in a (test case) file.

This sniff is compatible with PHPCS 3.1.0+.

Typical usage:
* Set up a test case file for a new sniff you intend to write.
* Run PHPCS over the test case file using this standard to see a list of the tokens found in the file:
```bash
phpcs ./SniffNameUnitTest.inc --standard=PHPCSDebug
```
* Or use it together with the new sniff you are developing:
```bash
phpcs ./SniffNameUnitTest.inc --standard=YourStandard,PHPCSDebug --sniffs=YourStandard.Category.NewSniffName,PHPCSDebug.Debug.TokenList
```

The output will look something along the lines of:
```
Ptr | Ln | Col  | Cond | ( #) | Token Type                 | [len]: Content
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  0 | L1 | C  1 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_OPEN_TAG                 | [  5]: <?php

  1 | L2 | C  1 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_WHITESPACE               | [  0]:

  2 | L3 | C  1 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_COMMENT                  | [ 32]: // Boolean not operator: All OK.

  3 | L4 | C  1 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_IF                       | [  2]: if
  4 | L4 | C  3 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_WHITESPACE               | [  1]:
  5 | L4 | C  4 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_OPEN_PARENTHESIS         | [  1]: (
  6 | L4 | C  5 | CC 0 | ( 1) | T_WHITESPACE               | [  1]:
  7 | L4 | C  6 | CC 0 | ( 1) | T_CONSTANT_ENCAPSED_STRING | [  4]: 'bb'
  8 | L4 | C 10 | CC 0 | ( 1) | T_WHITESPACE               | [  1]:
  9 | L4 | C 11 | CC 0 | ( 1) | T_IS_NOT_IDENTICAL         | [  3]: !==
 10 | L4 | C 14 | CC 0 | ( 1) | T_WHITESPACE               | [  1]:
 11 | L4 | C 15 | CC 0 | ( 1) | T_CONSTANT_ENCAPSED_STRING | [  4]: 'bb'
 12 | L4 | C 19 | CC 0 | ( 1) | T_WHITESPACE               | [  1]:
 13 | L4 | C 20 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_CLOSE_PARENTHESIS        | [  1]: )
 14 | L4 | C 21 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_WHITESPACE               | [  1]:
 15 | L4 | C 22 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_OPEN_CURLY_BRACKET       | [  1]: {
 16 | L4 | C 23 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_WHITESPACE               | [  0]:

 17 | L5 | C  1 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_WHITESPACE               | [  1]: \t
 18 | L5 | C  2 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_IF                       | [  2]: if
 19 | L5 | C  4 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_WHITESPACE               | [  1]:
 20 | L5 | C  5 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_OPEN_PARENTHESIS         | [  1]: (
 21 | L5 | C  6 | CC 0 | ( 0) | T_WHITESPACE               | [  0]:
```

PHPCS itself can also display similar information using the `-vv` or `-vvv` verbosity flags, however, when using those, you will receive a *lot* more information than just the token list and, while useful for debugging PHPCS itself, the additional information is mostly just noise when developing a sniff.


Contributing
-------
Contributions to this project are welcome. Clone this repository, branch off from `develop`, make your changes, commit them and send in a pull request.

If unsure whether the changes you are proposing would be welcome, open an issue first to discuss your proposal.

License
-------
This code is released under the [GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPLv3)](http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/lesser.html).
